---
date: Sat, 25 Jan 2025 23:56:21 -0800
title: Centered
mono_styled: true
tags: minimalism
---

I reclaimed a meaningful portion of my proper mental space today.

Don't worry, this isn't going to devolve into a screed about how smartphones are rotting our brains and the Internet was a mistake and other such performative #minimalism. I still love my iPhone 14 Pro, and if the Internet didn't exist you wouldn't be reading this!

But what I _will_ say is that when I went for a scooter ride earlier today around Portland SE neighborhoods such as Richmond, Sunnyside, and Ladd's Addition, **I left my iPhone at home**.

I still was listening to music on my headphones but via an Internet-free dedicated music player (more on that in the near future!). I've decided one of the ways I am going to _wrest back control_ from the insidious grasp of Big Tech this year is to become less reliant on always-on connections to their services. Sorry **Apple Music**, but I've decided I'm more of an **iTunes** guy at heart. 😏

A couple of downsides to my smartphone-free excursion: I kept missing the ability to bring up a map and plan my route, and I also missed having access to my note-taking app Bear. I don't have a good solution for the first problem—short of attempting to find a (gasp!) printed map of Portland—but as for the latter, I might just get a pocket-sized journal and small pen to write with.

At any rate, I consider this small but meaningful gesture of "unplugging" from the noise of feeds and flamewars and felonious fascists to be one I'll have to repeat often going forward. I could tell almost right away after my ride began that **my mood had improved considerably.** And that's a mental health boost well worth the temporary inconvenience of not having any wireless computer on my person.
