---
category: thoughts
date: '2018-05-07T08:30:14-07:00'
tags: movies scifi
newsletter: 5
---

I'm still processing how I feel about the adrenaline-infused spectacle that is _Avengers: Infinity War_. Without giving away any spoilers, the film starts off at 100 MPH and barely lets up the gas over the next 2 hours and 36 minutes. Now this isn't all that shocking given the way action movies get made these days, but in this case it really does feel quite intense. I think it's because this truly is the culmination of 10 years of Marvel films. We've grown to love these characters who have been presented and developed in so many interesting and creative ways throughout the 18 stories that preceded Infinity War. Seeing what they go through in this massive film and what they're up against in Thanos, a villain of surprising nuance and emotional depth, is the ride of a lifetime.

While I am a huge Star Wars fan through and through, I must admit that, as a millennial, the Marvel Cinematic Universe is today's top-tier franchise that I've most bonded with. Star Wars is awesome but it's a story that came out of my parents' generation. The MCU is _my_ story. (Yes, I know most of the actual characters and some of the plot lines are from comic books that originated decades ago. But to me, having never read the comics, everything feels new and fresh.)

I'll just say one more thing about the movie (which isn't a spoiler, I promise): I was so happy with what they did with Doctor Strange in this story. Not only did he get a fair amount of screen time, he played a pivotal role on several occasions in progressing the plot forward. Benedict Cumberbatch is in top form (when is he ever not?!), and since Doctor Strange is my favorite character in the MCU (and his origin story film one of my favorite movies of all time), I was quite pleased about this.

If you haven't seen _Avengers: Infinity War_ yet, what are you waiting for? Go! Go now! It's an historical event in film history we're all going to be talking about for a long time to come. #movies #scifi