---
number: 43
title: I’m Glad That You Are Here With Me at the End of All Things
subtitle: ch-ch-changes as I retool, retweak, and otherwise refreshen what it is I'm truly focusing on.
date: Wed, 04 Jun 2025 09:59:44 -0700
---

**Greetings, Friend.**

It's been a minute! How are you doing? Much is afoot as I plan the next major phase of my content creation efforts for the rest of the year, and with that comes _ch-ch-changes_ as I retool, retweak, and otherwise refreshen what it is I'm truly focusing on. It's a process we all go through from time to time.

One of those changes I'm announcing here today: sadly, I am sunsetting the **Creator Class** newsletter. This newsletter has been through many permutations (and names!) as well as a variety of different email providers over the years. But never fear, this does not mean you and I can't continue to create together! Instead of publishing **Creator Class**, I will be:

* **Redoubling my resolve** to weekly publishing of my Big Tech skeptic newsletter [Cycles Hyped No More](https://buttondown.com/theinternet) (_plz subscribe mkthxbye!_)
* **Relaunching my Discord** which heretofore was focused just on Web development but will be expanding to a variety of **Indie Web** content creation topics (_and no AI allowed!_)
* **Retooling my paid subscription system** so that it resonates better with the community I'm hoping to foster in what I write and discuss.

As this newsletter was ostensibly attached to my personal blog, I hope you still choose to follow me personally! Here's how you can do so:

* Follow me on **Mastodon**: [@jaredwhite@indieweb.social](https://indieweb.social/@jaredwhite)
* Subscribe to [my blog's RSS feed](https://jaredwhite.com/feed.xml)
* I'll send out a link here to the updated Discord once that's ready (_so don't unsubscribe from this list just yet!_)

Questions? Ideas? Comments? [Please reply to this email](mailto:jared@jaredwhite.com) and let me know. I'm always listening and hope to see you around in these other avenues down the road.

And be sure to [check out what's new on my blog](https://jaredwhite.com) (I'm posting nearly every day!) if you haven't been there in a while.

_Cheers!_ ✌️  
_Jared_
