---
number: 21
subject: Say Hello to “Mark Up This!”
email_preview_text: 'Introducing my brand new email newsletter format! Plus podcast
  #25, thoughts on Dashboard, and more.'
outro_text: "And that's all folks! Stay tuned for my upcoming vlog episode about my
  day trip up to Bothell and Seattle, WA. PLUS: if you have any links YOU'd like to
  contribute to the newsletter, please send 'em my way! (just send email to **jared@jaredwhite.com**)\r\n\r\nUntil
  then, may your pixels remain brightly colored! –Jared"
date: '2019-02-28T08:38:38-08:00'
---

Well this looks different. Yes, my friends, I completely redesigned my email newsletter! Here are the reasons why I took things in a different direction:

* When the previous design launched early last year, my frustration with "big social" media had reached its peak, so my email newsletter was an attempt to make email a way to deliver a news feed. But that format ended up proving rather inflexible…email being its own concept.
* One of my mantras this year is to make the most out of every medium I work in. So I decided I didn't just want to publish stuff online and then have an email go out…I wanted to publish a *great* email newsletter. One worthy of its own interest, giving people a rationale for being a subscriber.
* I also wanted to switch back to MailChimp from Campaign Monitor as my email platform. I originally moved away from MailChimp because of some of the interface issues I was having with it, plus Campaign Monitor offered some cool templates out of the box. But I ended up having a lot of problems with it, and meanwhile MailChimp redesigned their interface and it's really lovely now. So what's old is new again, and I'm once more using MailChimp.

In short, my email newsletter now has a simplified yet more refined style, and it actually has a name this time around! Originally I'd thought about calling it *Open Markup*, but that sounded a little TOO geeky upon further reflection. In the final analysis, I like the name *Mark Up This!* because it sounds playful and a little cheeky, yet still captures the sense that I'm talking about online content and the web.

So this newsletter is now a legit publishing outlet, alongside my podcast and vlog. Speaking of which: I have a new podcast episode out now as well!

🎙 **[From Paris with Love](http://jaredwhite.com/podcast/25/)**

I got to see _Alita: Battle Angel_ in the theater in 3D, which was a fantastic experience, so I give my spoiler-free review with the pros and the cons (but mostly pros!) of the movie. Plus some very interesting news regarding Emma Thompson and her takedown of The Man (aka Mr. Lasseter), as well as other links and creators of note. Enjoy!

(Pssst: if you aren't already, [please consider becoming a Patreon supporter](https://patreon.com/essentiallifejared). Every little bit helps make it easier for me to publish great content every week.)