---
number: 22
subject: You Know Who Loves Privacy? Mark Zuckerberg
email_preview_text: Also, Ubuntu ate my iMac! And other fun Apple talk on The Jared
  White Show…
outro_text: "And thus concludes this week's edition of <span style=\"color:#b04\">&lt;</span>Mark
  Up This!<span style=\"color:#b04\">&gt;</span>. Thanks for playing!\r\n\r\n(Pssst:
  if you aren't already, [please consider becoming a Patreon supporter](https://patreon.com/essentiallifejared).
  Every little bit helps make it easier for me to publish great content every week.
  Your patronage is much appreciated!)"
date: '2019-03-07T00:02:06-08:00'
---

Tim Cook will need to start looking over his shoulder because his tenure as The Most Privacy-Focused Tech CEO in Silicon Valley is almost up. Indeed, he has a young cur biting at his heels even now, and that cur's name is…[Mark Zuckerberg](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/03/06/technology/facebook-privacy-blog.html).

Case in point:

<div class="quote" markdown="1">
“I believe we should be working towards a world where people can speak privately and live freely knowing that their information will only be seen by who they want to see it and won’t all stick around forever.”
</div>

and:

<div class="quote" markdown="1">
“I believe the future of communication will increasingly shift to private, encrypted services where people can be confident what they say to each other stays secure and their messages and content won’t stick around forever. This is the future I hope we will help bring about.”
</div>

Pardon me while I pick myself off the floor.

All right, so we're supposed to believe that Mark "The Data Harvester" Zuckerberg—the man whose surprisingly straightforward answer for Senator Orrin Hatch's question about how Facebook can sustain a lucrative business if its users don't pay for the service was simply [”Senator, we run ads.”](https://jaredwhite.com/articles/all-hail-the-menlo-park-thought-police)—the man who got his start in social networking by prank-stealing students' information at Harvard—the man who built a juggernaut of an organization which prides itself on making the world more "open" and "connected" (aka more monetizable and more addicted)—has suddenly seen the light and now wants to prioritize privacy and secure transmission of communications across the entire Facebook empire?

Sure. Perhaps you should ask Zuck about [that bridge in Manhattan](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_C._Parker) he'd like to sell you while you're at it.

MEANWHILE, I recorded another episode of *The Jared White Show* for your listening pleasure:

🎙 **[Ubuntu Ate My iMac](http://jaredwhite.com/podcast/26/)**

That title's no joke, but in addition to the wild tale of rebuilding my ravaged-by-Linux computer, I also covered a variety of forward-looking topics of interest to Apple nerds such as: 

* Touch ID vs Face ID
* The USB-C lifestyle, Dongletown, etc.
* iPad apps coming soon to the Mac via “Marzipan”
* My WWDC 2019 wishlist
* OLED vs. LCD iPhone displays
* The future of the Mac Pro and MacBook Pro
* And that $27.99 iPad Pro case I bought off Amazon which is actually quite awesome.

Good times. 