---
number: 24
subject: The Year of the Personal Cloud
email_preview_text: How I kicked Dropbox, Google Analytics, and Facebook to the curb
  and took control over my internet.
outro_text: Happy Spring everybody! Put your phone down or your tablet away or whatever
  and go enjoy some warmer (hopefully) weather. Why am I even still typing this?!
  GAAA! I'm outta here baby. See y'all next week. PEACE ✌️
date: '2019-03-21T22:38:09-07:00'
---

You know, I was all set to write a snarky opening to talk about how I'd had enough, how a man's got to take a stand, how the best time to start using your own self-hosted internet services is NOW…

…and then I got side-tracked and read [Emilia Clarke's harrowing first-person account of surviving not one, but _two_ brain aneurysms](https://www.newyorker.com/culture/personal-history/emilia-clarke-a-battle-for-my-life-brain-aneurysm-surgery-game-of-thrones). (Yes, that Emilia Clarke, as in the "Mother of Dragons" on Game of Thrones.)

Whoa. Just set this newsletter aside and **go read her story already.** Can't top that.

…done?

OK, so today I have new episode of *The Jared White Show* for your listening pleasure:

🎙 **[The Year of the Personal Cloud](https://jaredwhite.com/podcast/27/)**

It's a detailed account of which services I've started using for things like file syncing and sharing, website analytics, code repositories, photo galleries, etc., instead of the big commercial services everyone just uses by default. (Because nobody ever got fired by recommending Google, AMIRITE?!)

You know, it's a funny thing. In the late 90s and early 2000s, installing software on a server somewhere to use for various online tasks was pretty widespread. There was a PHP package (whether paid or open source) for _everything_. I remember the first time Basecamp launched in 2004, and I was **shocked** that it was only available by paying a monthly fee to access it on 37signals' own servers. It was an early SaaS (Software-as-a-Service) product, and I thought that was bonkers. _Why would anyone pay for an internet service they can't host themselves?_

Clearly, the correct answer turned out to be: f'n everybody who uses the g** d*** internet. 😱

Yet here we are, 15 years later, and I think maybe, just maybe a few of us have awakened from the nightmare which Facebook and Google have wrought, and we've realized that using _libre_ (free) software and self-hosted internet services is actually a viable path forward afterall. You don't have to be stuck with Google Drive, or Dropbox, or whatever. You don't have to be stuck with posting baby pictures on Facebook. **There are other ways.**

(And I talk about some of these other ways on my podcast. Worth a listen! 😜)