---
number: 27
subject: Why I Love to Write
email_preview_text: Shakespeare, Rob Bell, Pasta PC, iOS 13, and more!
outro_text: By this time next week, I will have seen Avengers Endgame. I can't wait
  to share my thoughts with you all—as well as go into full-on geekout mode in all
  the spoiler forums. _Excelsior!_
date: '2019-04-26T09:36:39-07:00'
---

I was contemplating what I should write about for this issue, and after not settling on anything compelling, I decided to write about every writer's favorite topic: **writing.**

Seriously, go Google (or DuckDuckGo if you prefer) "famous writer quotes" and the first entries which show up are quotes by famous authors on the art of writing. Here are a few choice selections:

<div class="quote" markdown="1">
Most writers regard the truth as their most valuable possession, and therefore are most economical in its use.  
– _Mark Twain_
</div>

<div class="quote" markdown="1">
It’s none of their business that you have to learn to write. Let them think you were born that way.  
– _Ernest Hemingway_
</div>

<div class="quote" markdown="1">
I try to create sympathy for my characters, then turn the monsters loose.  
– _Stephen King_
</div>

<div class="quote" markdown="1">
And as imagination bodies forth  
The forms of things unknown, the poet’s pen  
Turns them to shapes and gives to airy nothing  
A local habitation and a name.  
– _William Shakespeare_
</div>

Ah, good old Shakespeare. Next time when somebody asks me what my favorite pastime is, I'll just tell them I turn the forms of things unknown into shapes and give to airy nothing a local habitation and a name.

_Come again?_

Speaking of authors, I've been listening to recent episodes of [The Robcast]( https://robbell.com/portfolio/robcast/) by Rob Bell where he's been reading excerpts from his own books. The first thing I realized during these auditory forays is _Damn, I need to read more Rob Bell books!_ The second thing I realized is the reason he cites for why he writes is exactly why I love to write. Like Bell, I love to write because it helps me process through what I'm going through. Feelings, questions, ideas, frustrations, hopes and dreams, visions for the future…all that energy swirling around the synaptic network of my cranium becomes full-fledged concepts and opinions and statements when I'm able to put pen to paper (or rather, finger to keyboard).

O, I need to write more. Something in my soul begins to corrode if I don't get those author juices flowing. But it's hard to find the time without sacrificing other important endeavors such as…**The Jared White Show**. (There's a transition fer ya.)

**[🎙 Episode 29: What Instagram Gets Right](https://jaredwhite.com/podcast/29/)**

In this episode I go on a deep dive into the greatest aspects of Instagram and what alternative services will need to build in order to provide compelling experiences. I also ponder on the notion that 2019 might be shaping up to be The Year of the iPad Pro. Will iOS 13 push the envelope of what’s possible in iPad software? (All signs point YES!)

There's also a Pasta PC if you're interested. Yes, you heard me right. Pasta. PC.

I'll close this out with one more quote:

<div class="quote" markdown="1">
Do not shirk thy civic duty by forgoing a singular episode of Ye Olde Jared White Show.  
– _George Washington_
</div>

You can't argue with George Washington.