---
number: 31
subject: Summertime FOMO Blues
email_preview_text: This is the time of year when my chosen profession is not sitting
  well with me. (Ironically, that's all I'm doing. Sitting.)
outro_text: "BTW, if you're lucky enough to be running one of the latest iOS or macOS
  betas and you're in \"Dark Mode,\" you should be seeing this newsletter with a dark
  background and light text. It took a lot of effort to get my custom HTML and MailChimp
  to play nicely together, but it was worth it in the end. \U0001F601 See ya next
  week, my fellow netizens!"
date: '2019-08-05T07:58:38-07:00'
---

Hashtag "VanLife" on YouTube will be the death of me.

On the one hand, it's hecka fun to watch attractive millennial couples bop around various countries with their tiny houses on wheels—splashing in local watering holes, eating local vegan cuisine, and shooting epic drone footage with a dramatic Future Bass soundtrack.

On the other hand, I'm watching them out of the corner of my eye while sitting in my office chair staring at code all day. Being a programmer pays well but the sedentary work environment does not mesh well with August.

All that to say, I've really been struggling with FOMO (Fear Of Missing Out, for the folks in the back) lately, and to solve this problem I did what comes most naturally.

I wrote a blog post about it. 🤣

More specifically, I wrote about how to fight back against your inner demos whenever you're faced with feelings of inadequacy or failure—especially when you find yourself in a season of life when you have to start over in some measure. (Happens to all of us eventually.)

Anyway, check out the link below and let me know if you resonate with any of these notions.

----

In case you missed it last week, I recorded Episode 37 of _The Jared White Show_, and in the grand tradition of off-beat podcast titles, I'm particularly proud of this one: **Get SMART** (called that because one of the topics I discussed on the show is a recent bill in Congress called the SMART Act).

I also dived into the latest Q3 2019 earnings results from Apple, and—depending on who you talk to—they're either surprisingly stellar or dreadfully terrible. Sometimes when I look at what passes for news reporting these days, I can't even.

[Anyway, listen here for all that and more. Don't miss the Hopper, P.I. bit at the end if you're at all a fan of Stranger Things!](https://jaredwhite.com/podcast/37/)