---
number: 34
subject: Start Climbing Mountains
email_preview_text: Thoughts on sports, hobbies, and pursuits "later in life" — plus
  the latest podcast and a ton of pictures.
outro_text: Next up…a video about my recent trips up to downtown Seattle! Stay tuned.
date: '2019-09-12T09:16:10-07:00'
---

It's not uncommon for people to discover new hobbies or pastimes later in life. (Considering I'm not quite out of my 30s yet, I'm not sure I even qualify yet for anything labeled "later in life.")

But I definitely recognize the fact that after you've been an adult for quite a while, your habits and patterns and inclinations tend to solidify, and it becomes very easy to keep mindlessly doing what you've always done. For me, that means I could easily just keep writing software at a computer desk and taking a break to walk over to a coffee shop now and then. Maybe on the weekends I take the kids to the zoo.

Boom, there's my life in a nutshell.

I've been thinking a lot this year about how much I want to try doing something truly new. Something unfamiliar and very different from my normal routine. _A challenge._

Typical athletic pursuits like going to the gym or playing tennis or riding a bike or training for a marathon sound quite boring to me. I know tons of people derive great pleasure from sports, but that's never been my jam. However, I do love being outdoors and deeply enjoy walking in gorgeous nature settings. Always have.

Last month, that love of nature led me to climb a thousand feet above Timberline Lodge on the upper slopes of Mt. Hood, and that's when I realized my newfound passion.

**I desperately want to be a mountain climber.**

Now let me quickly clarify this by saying I'm not looking to go batshit crazy and fly around the world so I can scale the heights of Mt. Everest in the middle of winter with nothing but a yak to keep me company.

Somewhere between "casual day hike through a meadow" and "triggering an avalache that will bury me alive in a glacier at 20,000 feet" is the sweet spot of challenge and reward, effort and fun. Give myself an epic workout, reach the pinnacle of some jaw-dropping landscape, take the obligatory "I made it to the top!" Instagram shot, and that's another one for the books.

Something about large mountains (and, apparently, volcanos in particular) literally takes my breath away. Every time I drive around the Portland area and suddenly Mt. Hood or another mountain in the Cascades becomes visible, I let out audible gasps and shrieks of sheer amazement. Every. Damn. Time.

And so, instead of simply being a spectator, why not embrace the mountain? Learn a few of its secrets. Become "one" with it in some goofy mystical makes-for-a-great-Instagram-caption way. I can think of worse ways to lower my cholesterol and tick all the BMI boxes as I head into my 40s…plus my YouTube channel is going to be siiiiiick.

Just don't shake my hand and shout _Break a leg!_ In this context, I'm highly skeptical that will bring me good luck…

😜

---

### Now playing on The Jared White Show

Not even trypophobia could keep me from discussing what’s new with iPhone 11, Watch Series 5, and the rest of Apple’s September extravaganza. Also my thoughts on the landmark California ruling which reclassifies Uber drivers (and other “gig economy” workers) as employees.

**[🎙 Episode 40: No Trypophobia Here, Thankfully](https://jaredwhite.com/podcast/40)**
