---
number: 35
subject: You Get to Do This!
email_preview_text: Craft is a part of who we are. It's what we care deeply about,
  even if nobody else does. And that's OK.
outro_text: "In case I don't get another issue out before October 31…Happy Halloween!
  Watch out for spooks and spiders and goblins and…goats? (Because, um, goats are
  sometimes associated with Satan? I dunno.)\r\n\r\n**Peace!**"
date: '2019-10-24T09:39:29-07:00'
---

Last night, for the first time, I joined a group meditation. (Technically it was called "centering prayer" — a form of mindfulness meditation in the contemplative Christian tradition).

As I sat there in the host's living room in total silence alongside my fellow acolytes and the minutes dragged on (turns out doing absolutely nothing for twenty minutes is, y'know, not very easy!), I noticed a sensation begin to wash over me.

**It was gratitude.**

Gratitude is something I've been working hard to cultivate as of late—particularly as it pertains to the creative work I publish online. Whether it's a vlog, a blog, or a slog (OK, you may shoot me now)…whether I'm posting a photo on Instagram or pushing open source code up to GitHub…one of the biggest challenges for me has always been the question of the "reward" I get from my work.

_Is anyone liking my photo?_

_Is anyone downloading my code?_

_Is anyone watching my video?_

_Is anyone reading this newsletter?_ You are! :)

But lately I've discovered something. Constantly seeking out the reward of doing creative work is kryponite to the cultivation of gratitude. Expecting to receive accolades from fans is a total buzzkill when it comes to sustaining your craft over the long haul.

**Because the greatest art you create is what you make when you're making it for yourself.**

In the excellent book _How to Be Here_, author Rob Bell promotes the idea that as creative people we shouldn't be striving for success, but rather to learn to relish the craft itself. Whatever it is we're doing, it's the _doing_ of it all that matters. "There is a difference between craft and success," Bell says. "Craft is when you have a profound sense of gratitude that you even get to do this …Craft is your awareness that all the hours you're putting in are adding up to something, that they're producing in you skill and character and substance."

In other words, success is fleeting and temporary and oftentimes a major letdown (the hype can be more thrilling than the final result). But craft is something we can carry with us every day. It's a part of who we are. It's what we care deeply about, even if nobody else does. And that's OK.

So gratitude… I'm grateful that I live in an age where publishing is easy and the tools to create amazing media are easier to obtain and use than ever before. Success is never promised us, never a guarantee. But craft is something _everyone_ has access to. Learn to enjoy the craft, and your creative endeavors will become reward enough as you take that next step to express your truth each day.

"Success says, _What more can I get?_  
Craft says, _Can you believe I get to do this?_"  
–Rob Bell

---

### Speaking of What I Get to Do…

Added some podcast episodes and videos to the website…w00t! In case you haven't seen them yet, here's a brief rundown:

* [Podcast Episode 42: Facebook 2020](https://jaredwhite.com/podcast/42/) — in which I pontificate on the future of Facebook in the face of upcoming U.S. regulation and renewed excitement around social network interoperability.
* [Podcast Episode 41: Mental Health and the Creative Freelancer](https://jaredwhite.com/podcast/41/) — in which I dive into my history of depression and how freelancing has sometimes contributed to it (and how to get out of a funk!).
* [VIDEO: Backlash Against the Tech Backlash](https://jaredwhite.com/videos/20191018/backlash-against-the-tech-backlash) — in which I argue we shouldn’t feel guilty about the technology choices that we make. Just be mindful of what those choices are. The real danger isn’t getting addicted to technology. It’s not realizing if we have. So stay aware…but also, celebrate the magic!