---
date: '2019-11-07T09:17:50-08:00'
published: true
number: 36
subject: I'm Feeling Just Impeachy
email_preview_text: I promise not to talk politics. Much. Also, a vlog on the Portland
  Farmers Market and lots of amazing fall colors!
outro_text: I got a doozy of a podcast planned next week in which I talk about my
  switch BACK to Dropbox and adopting an iOS-first pro photography lifestyle with
  Adobe Lightroom in the cloud. See ya then!
---

_There once were two cats of Kilkenny,  
Each thought there was one cat too many,  
So they fought and they fit,  
And they scratched and they bit,  
Till, excepting their nails  
And the tips of their tails,  
Instead of two cats, there weren’t any._

**Irish Nursery Rhyme**

'Tis the season when the politicians in our American system of government are looking more and more like the cats of Kilkenny. Like most observers, I have a strong preference how I wish to see the impeachment proceedings of the President play out, but I also harbor deep concern that even if my wildest dreams come true, it won't do much to heal the extremely fractured nature of our political discourse.

One of the things I try to do in my own life to keep from spiraling into rank partisanship is to listen to commentators who themselves attempt to maintain some measure of empathy and objectivity around various issues and debates—and in some cases, a whole bucketload of humor. My favorite rhetorician at preset is comedian Jamie Kilstein [(Link to his Patreon here.)](https://www.patreon.com/Jamiekilsteinpodcast) Now I'm warning you: he's filthy AF and I totally get his brand of humor isn't for everybody. But I've been getting a real kick out of every episode in these past few months ever since hearing his chat with [The Minimalists](https://theminimalists.com) (also a great source for interesting dialog…and much less filthy 😆).

In other news, I'm sending this newsletter issue out as I recover from a flu I can only describe as the "feel extremely old" disease. As in, _everything hurts and I'm dying_. So I'm bummed I haven't been able to get another podcast episode out this week. HOWEVER, I did manage to cobble together a pretty cool vlog from footage I shot last weekend in and around the Portland Farmers Market which is one of the largest "pop-up" markets in the country. Great fall colors abound. (See video links below.)

'Till next time, my peeps!  
_Jared_
