---
date: '2019-12-06T09:12:06-08:00'
published: true
number: 38
subject: Disney, Plus…All the Plusses
email_preview_text: The highs and lows of geeking out over 4K TV and the latest streaming
  services! Plus my photo/video iPad workflow and much more.
outro_text: "You'll get one, maybe two more newsletters out of me and then it's Christmas
  and New Year's! Can you believe it?!?! Get ready to wave farewell to 2019, and usher
  in perfect 2020 vision. \U0001F601"
---

If any year could be called the year of “peek geek,” it would probably be this one.

I bought myself a 4K TV a couple of months ago (sorry, me no can wait until Christmas!), and it just so happened to coincide with the launch of multiple new streaming services. At this point I have them all…**Netflix**, **Prime**, **Hulu**, **Disney+**, **Apple TV+**, **HBO+** (er, I mean HBO Max…OK sure that one's not out yet, but you can bet your bottom dollar I'll be picking that one up too!).

Never has there been a time when it's easier to pick up a remote (or a tablet) and drill down to the exact genre film or TV show your blessed little geek heart yearns for. With a snap of your fingers and a spoonful of sugar, you better believe this medicine is going down in the most delightful way.

BUT…there is a danger in all of this. Whether it's Baby Yoda or Bradley Jackson or Bertram Gilfoyle that's sucking you into the latest bubble in the zeitgeist, the trick is to remember to come up for air now and then and conclude that you don't have to rely solely on the talents of others to fulfill your inner geek.

**_You can create your own fantasy._**

I'm writing this to you right now having made the choice to, dog-gone-it, sit down with iPad in hand and write an email newsleter—**rather than** plop down in my easy chair and watch the next installment in the Skywalker Saga: _The Return of the Jedi_. (I fully admit, I'm taking advantage of my Disney+ subscription to binge-watch **Star Wars** in all its 4K glory prior to witnessing the theatrical release of _The Rise of Skywalker_ on December 20.)

In other words, it's important to be a creator, not just a consumer. Go outside, explore, visit with friends, read about real-world history, learn a new skill or hobby, write a book, paint a painting, bake a bundt, send out an email newsletter.

Sure, watching your favorite superhero comic book TV show or the latest sci-fi space opera on a streaming service is fun. Quite fun. But truth be told, if you're looking for genuine beauty and wonder and joy, nothing beats good ol' Planet Earth…from a certain point of view.

**Cue the music, maestro!**

_If you want to view paradise  
Simply look around and view it   
Anything you want to, do it   
Want to change the world?   
There's nothing to it   
There is no life I know   
To compare with pure imagination   
Living there, you'll be free, if you truly wish to be._

---

Meanwhile, I just recorded a very special BONUS episode of **The Jared White Show** where I talked about the most exciting topic in all of computing: file storage! But seriously, this episode is a deep dive into my very specific photography and videography workflows, and especially how I get it all done on my iPad Pro with Lightroom CC and LumaFusion. In addition, I cover the pros and cons of iCloud Drive, Nextcloud, and Dropbox, and make some recommendations for what you might want to choose for your cloud storage needs. _Listen here:_

🎙 **[44: iPad Pro Photo/Video Workflow & Cloud Storage ](https://jaredwhite.com/podcast/44/)**