---
date: '2020-01-24T10:44:26-08:00'
published: true
number: 43
subject: Just Build a House
email_preview_text: Choosing your tools wisely and settling on a workflow and environment
  that is productive, stimulating, and consistent is vital to improving the quality
  of your work and the ease with which you create.
outro_text: Can you believe January is almost over? Wowee. I'm not quite at maximum
  capacity for appreciating this season of hibernation, but I think in a few weeks
  I'll be quite ready for springtime weather to reemerge. In the meantime, I'm keeping
  that beanie on tight.
---

A quote attributed to actor Christopher Walken goes like this: "If you want to learn how to build a house, build a house. Don't ask anybody, just build a house."

I'm not sure I'd hire Christopher Walken to build me a house.

(But I'd certainly hire him to play foreman on TV. The man can act!)

Why do I bring this up? I appreciate the quote's overall sentiment, which is that the best way to learn how to do something is simply by doing it. Don't procrastinate, don't come up with excuses, don't lean too heavily on what everybody else is doing. Just. Do! It! as Shia LaBeouf would say. (Or was that Nike?)

And when it comes to writing (our topic of the day), my philosophy is that the best way to become a better writer is to WRITE. (And READ good writing.) But there's a lot more to writing than just grabbing a pen or a typewriter or a laptop. Chosing your tools wisely and settling on a workflow and environment that is productive, stimulating, and consistent is vital to improving the quality of your work and the ease with which you create.

Why write at all? If you're not a professional author or essayist, what's in it for you? [As I wrote in Issue 27 of this newsletter](https://jaredwhite.com/newsletters/27/): "I love to write because it helps me process through what I’m going through. Feelings, questions, ideas, frustrations, hopes and dreams, visions for the future…all that energy swirling around the synaptic network of my cranium becomes full-fledged concepts and opinions and statements when I’m able to put pen to paper (or rather, finger to keyboard)."

On this week's episode of **The Jared White Show**, I discuss at length the apps I use to write and for organizing research, the environment and context in which I write, and what I like to do for inspiration to become a better writer. Maybe this is all old hat to you and you got your writing routine down. Or maybe you’re looking to shake things up this year and adopt new workflows or technology to jumpstart your writing career. In either case, I hope you find something useful in this conversation. Onward and upward, my friend!

🎙 **[Episode 48: There's a Write Way to Do Things](https://jaredwhite.com/podcast/48/)**