---
date: '2020-03-04T10:15:51-08:00'
published: true
number: 46
subject: My Friend, Nathan
email_preview_text: Catching up on everything…Amtrak trip to Seattle, not one but
  TWO podcast episodes, and so much more!
outro_text: It's dawned on me that St. Patrick's Day is looming. Back in the days
  when I was in a Celtic music band, this was one of the busiest parts of the year
  for me. Times may have changed, but nevertheless I will have to prepare an "Irish
  surprise" for you all. Stay tuned!
---

Well it's been a minute, no? Still feeling hungover from Super Tuesday? (Apologies to my international friends for the very American frame of reference here.)

I'll be honest with you…my personal life is all kinds of crazy right now, so I'm going to have to keep today's newsletter brief. Especially since the "actual" content I have for you is extensive—yes, in the time since I last sent out an issue, there's been a flurry of activity on the site.

📺 First of all, I promised last time I would soon post a vlog episode all about my Amtrak train trip from Portland up to Seattle. [That is now online!](https://jaredwhite.com/videos/20200213/worth-it-amtrak-cascades-to-seattle-olympic-sculpture-park-tacoma-narrows-bridge) Lots of great vistas of the Puget Sound, Seattle Public Library, King Street Station, and other Emerald City highlights.

🎙 Secondly, I have not one but TWO podcast episodes out the door. The first one is all about [The State of Social Media in 2020](https://jaredwhite.com/podcast/51/)…specifically, what the top networks are getting right, or wrong, and what is coming down the pike. You might be surprised where my head is at these days…

▶️ Aaaaand [the episode I just published this week is extra-special](https://jaredwhite.com/podcast/52/). It's the first time I've had a guest on The Jared White Show!!! (I'm very excited. 😆) I had my friend Nathan Kontny come on to talk about his journey from software developer to YouTube content creator, the challenges and rewards of presenting your authentic self, ups and downs in entrepreneurship, what's the deal with privacy and the tech industry, centralized vs. decentralized social media, diversity in startup culture, and introducing children to an engineer's mindset. There's also something about tampons in there…it makes sense in context, I swear!

Also keep scrolling for some nifty photos as well as a blog post I wrote all about my kooky love affair with Portland.

Anyway, that is the extent of my "content dump" for now. Hopefully it won't be another month before I publish a newsletter. Thanks for sticking around! 😋