---
date: '2020-03-17T09:40:45-07:00'
published: true
number: 47
subject: Céad Míle Fáilte! Also, everything sucks :(
email_preview_text: Happy St. Patrick's Day! We need a big dose of that Luck o' the
  Irish right about now…
outro_text: Remember, we're all in this together. For better or for worse. Go Humanity!
---

Happy St. Patrick's Day! ☘ This has always been one of my favorite holidays of the entire year, for a variety of reasons; namely, I spent my teenage years [performing Celtic music in the family band](https://store.cdbaby.com/cd/distantoaks2) so March 17 was always a busy time…playing at Irish pubs, providing the entertainment for private parties, and the like. Put on the green and fire up the bagpipes!

But like _literally everything else right now_, St. Patrick's Day's been canceled. I mean, the coronavirus has taken cancel culture to a new extreme, amirite? (*Too soon?*)

Seriously though, the news right now is terrible, everything sucks, and I'm very sad. But I'm also very grateful that we still have the **internet** as a way to stay in touch, keep ourselves occupied and stimulated with art and discourse, and feel a wee bit less freakishly isolated in these trying times.

The videos and photos below were all published before self-quarantining became the name of the game, so I'm not sure what my tiny travel empire will look like in the months ahead. Yes, it's probably OK if you drive straight to the middle of nowhere and hike around in solitude, avoiding all passersby. But half the fun of traveling is finding that nifty little coffee shop, or enjoying a homestyle breakfast on the road, or hanging out at a pub with the locals, or…huh, apparently my stomach is very involved in making travel plans.

AT ANY RATE, I guess I'll just have to do what everybody else is doing right now too. Play it all by ear. We sure could use a big heap of that **Luck o' the Irish** right about now!

All right folks: stay safe, stay healthy, and I'll leave you with this Irish blessing:

_May joy and peace surround you,_  
_Contentment latch your door,_  
_And happiness be with you now,_  
_And bless you evermore._