---
date: '2020-04-30T07:09:56-07:00'
published: true
number: 49
subject: St. Augustine Rhymes with Quarantine and Other Useless Facts
email_preview_text: There is much potential for learning and growth during this crisis…and
  then there is just all the noise.
outro_text: "Stay healthy, stay safe, stay home! (And hopefully then we'll all get
  through this much quicker and can start to reopen sooner rather than later.)\r\n\r\nPeace!
  ✌️☮️"
---

It's funny the kinds of things that stick with you in the midst of a giant firehose of information about a global pandemic.

For example, a wise sage on Twitter took this opportunity to remind us all that **Augustine** (that's _Saint_ Augustine to you boy) rhymes with **quarantine**. In other words, it's *AH-gus-TEEN*, not *uh-GUS-tin*. I'm not entirely sure this is the most useful observation to be considering right now, but there you have it. I also think my quip that we're all living in a "Quarantino" movie now deserves some merit—*"Once Upon a Time…in Isolation."*

You're welcome.

But on a more serious note, [I finally sat down to write about some of the things I've been struggling with](https://jaredwhite.com/articles/emerging-from-the-slump) over the past few weeks, and I wish I could say it was all due to, y’know, **the global pandemic**…it would make for a simpler explanation. And of course that’s a thing *everyone* is going through right now. A shared trauma of the entire human race at a singular moment in space and time.

But there's more to it…additional insanity that's been going on behind the scenes—and while I can't talk too much about it publicly just yet, I did tease out some of the broad strokes [in my latest podcast episode](https://jaredwhite.com/podcast/54/).

Speaking of podcasts, this is an episode you'll want to listen to if for no other reason that I share some of my favorite games and TV shows which have taken the edge off of dark times. I realize you've probably heard enough favorite-games-and-shows lists lately to last a lifetime, but you might as well put one more in your back pocket!

At least it's not another **join-me-on-this-amazing-10-day-yoga-workout-vlog-series** pitch. I'm *defintely* WELL over that old chestnut.