---
date: '2021-01-17T21:20:05-08:00'
published: true
number: 50
subject: "Oh, Hello There. Nice to Meet You. \U0001F603"
email_preview_text: Rebooting the newsletter after 8 months of silence. Whoa, a lot
  has happened in 8 months!
outro_text: I've really been enjoying mobile photography lately with the iPhone 12
  mini. The image quality I can get in such a tiny package is quite remarkable.
---

My name is Jared. What's yours?

You might not remember who I am. After all, I haven't sent out a newsletter issue in over 8 months. 8 months! A lot has happened in the past 8 months! 🤪

A raging pandemic. A wild election cycle. A violent assult on our nation's capitol. (That would be the U.S. of A., for my international friends.) WandaVision. [Sea shanties](https://www.vulture.com/2021/01/tiktok-sea-shanties-explained.html).

So yeah, it's freaking crazy out there. But I'm just here, working and living and breathing in Portland, Oregon (which reminds me: I forgot to mention the race riots 😅). When I was still sending out newsletters, I was largely known for publishing on topics such as **essentialism**, **content creation**, **using Apple devices**, and the occasional nerd dive into **open web technologies**. Plus my vlogs all about **travel in the beautiful Pacific Northwest**.

Well, the vlogging too fell off the wagon as all the lockdowns obviously complicated matters. For a while, that was true of my podcast as well. *But I have good news on that front!* [The podcast is back, and it's now called **Fresh Fusion**](https://jaredwhite.com/podcast). Yep, I'm back in the saddle, and I've been recording episodes about free speech post-Trump, product placements & ethical advertising, the process of creativity as its own reward—and I'm just getting started.

I also published an essay called [Seven Months After the Slump](https://jaredwhite.com/articles/seven-months-after-the-slump) which chronicled my 2020 rise from depression and obscurity to basking in the glow of a surprising taste of fame as an open source Ruby programmer.

So life rolls on, and it's now 2021. A new year of new possibilities. And I'm more determined than ever to crush it when it comes to writing and publishing. Expect to see a return to weekly *(more or less)* newsletters and a beefy essay at least once a month. And as always, if you have ideas for articles or podcast episodes or anything else, [please let me know](mailto:jared@jaredwhite.com).

*Excelsior!*

JW ✌️