---
published: true
category: thoughts
date: 2024-02-19 09:19:47.946860000 -08:00
tags: writing
mono_styled: true
---

February 2024 kicked me, and then kicked me again while I was down. 😡 I have _not_ been a happy camper. Yet hope springs eternal, and I want to acknowledge a few things I'm currently grateful for:

* **Good Coffee**. No, I don't mean coffee that's good, I mean [the local chain of coffee shops](https://goodwith.us/pages/locations) which seems to have taken over some of the best locations in central Portland and even in the ’burbs (hello Cedar Hills!). I'm currently partaking of a particularly tasty blueberry muffin.
* **Bridgetown**. No, I don't mean Portland (though yes it's rad), I mean the [Ruby website framework](https://www.bridgetownrb.com) I develop. After a _long_ dry spell, I'm finally feeling pumped to be working on it again—even the small maintainer-y things that only people who tinker in open source know what I'm talking about. 
* **The Tourist**. No, I don't mean a traveler I happened to strike up a conversation with, I mean [the Netflix show](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Tourist_%28TV_series%29) starring Jamie Dornan and Danielle Macdonald whose first season was truly _whacked-out_ and whose upcoming second season is set in Ireland (woohoo!). I'm a huge fan of Jamie Dornan, but I wasn't sure if this was the sort of show that would get bogged down under the weight of its rather absurd premise. Thankfully it proved adept indeed, and I can't _wait_ for the next season.
* **Thoughts**. No, I don't mean simply things I contemplate in my brain, I mean this specific type of blog post which in my content system is any #writing which sits between microblogging and long-form essays. Most of my "thoughts" over the years are safely ensconced in my **Day One** diary, but I like having a space where more publicly-appropriate musings can see the light of day. After all, what is a personal blog for if not that, am I right? 😊
